# Tomographic-Image-Reconstruction-Algorithms
Research done on using parallel programming to accelerate tomographic image reconstruction algorithms.


This work was funded by the National Science Foundation under grant no. CCF-1460900 and the Army Research Office under grant no. W911NF-11-1-0160.



# Abstract
Wave-based ultrasonic tomographic imaging is able to create high-resolution images of some target of interest and the surrounding inhomogeneous medium. It involves propagating sound waves through an imaging field and then algorithmically reconstructing an image of the target based on sensor data and the acoustic wave propagation model. The imaging process is mathematically formulated as an inversion problem. Nonlinear inverse methods for tomographic imaging have applications ranging from medical imaging to geophysical exploration. However, due to their iterative nature, these algorithms are computationally intensive, which motivates us to explore new methods of employing parallel computing to accelerate them. Contemporary graphics processing units(GPUs) provide economical access to massively parallel computational capabilities.  The imaging process has previously been accelerated using a multiple input, multiple output(MIMO) approach, whereby sensors are divided into groups and each sensor in a group propagates a wave through the field simultaneously, facilitating parallel execution, at the cost of image accuracy. In this work, we develop parallel and scalable algorithms implementable on GPU using the simultaneous iterative reconstruction technique(SIRT). Unlike the traditional algebraic reconstruction technique(ART), which performs iterative image updates sequentially, SIRT performs its image updates in parallel. Although SIRT has a higher degree of data parallelism, which leads to faster iterations, and is robust to noise in measurement data, it is hindered by its higher data usage and slower convergence, due to the fact that more iterations are required to create an accurate image compared to ART. To address the disadvantages of classic SIRT we develop GPU-accelerated SIRT algorithms and implementation strategies. We present three contributions. First, we parallelize SIRT on GPU for nonlinear inverse algorithms. Second, we design scalable algorithms to accommodate memory constraints of a given GPU. Third, we develop novel non-uniform weighted SIRT algorithms and demonstrate improved convergence compared with the classic SIRT algorithm.
